Like the rest of the Kafka ecosystem tools,
REST Proxy is written in Scala and Java and runs on the JVM.
Because of this choice,
REST Proxy can run just about anywhere.
REST Proxy is a simple HTTP web server and you may choose to
deploy just one instance or a cluster of many instances.
At its core, all Rest Proxy does is transform
structured JSON data from your application into Kafka's binary data format.
Conversely, it can also translate data from
Kafka into a JSON payload for your application.
REST Proxy surfaces a number of
useful administrative and metadata endpoints for your Kafka cluster.
But it's worth mentioning that you cannot create topics via REST Proxy.
REST Proxy can optionally be made aware of
Schema Registry so that it can help you manage your Avro schemas.
Finally, it's worth mentioning that REST Proxy is most
useful when you really can't use a Kafka client directly.
If using a Kafka client is a possible or viable option,
I strongly recommend that you take that route instead.
Kafka clients not only help abstract some of the interaction with Kafka in
a more efficient way than in the REST Proxy but they
also have substantial speed and payload size benefits as well.